DESTRUCTION OF THE WAR SHIP MAINE WAS THE WORK OF AN ENEMY — Assistant Secretary Roosevelt Convinced the Explosion of the War Ship Was Not an Accident — The Journal Offers $50,000 Reward for the Conviction of the Criminals Who Sent 258 American Sailors to Their Death — Naval Officers Unanimous That the Ship Was Destroyed on Purpose

George Eugene Bryson, the Journal's special correspondent at Havana, cables that it is the secret opinion of many Spaniards in the Cuban capital, that the Maine was destroyed and 258 men killed by means of marine mine or fixed torpedo. This is the opinion of several American naval authorities. The Spaniards, it is believed, arranged to have the Maine anchored over one of the harbor mines. Wires connected the mines with a magazine, and it is thought the explosion was caused by sending an electric current through the wire. If this can be proven, the brutal nature of the Spaniards will be shown by the fact that they waited to spring the mine after all the men had retired for the night. The Maltese cross in the picture shows where the mine may have been fired.

Mine or a Sunken Torpedo Believed to Have Been the Weapon Used Against the American Man-Of-War. Officer and Men Tell Thrilling Stories of Being Blown into the Air Amid a Mass of Shattered Steel and Exploding Shells. Survivors Brought to Key West Scout the Idea of Accident. Spanish Officials Protest Too Much. Our Cabinet Orders a Searching Inquiry. Journal Sends Divers to Havana to Report Upon the Condition of the Wreck. Was the Vessel Anchored Over a Mine?

Assistant Secretary of the Navy Theodore Roosevelt says he is convinced that the destruction of the Maine in Havana Harbor was not an accident. The Journal offers a reward of $50,000 for exclusive evidence that will convict the person, persons or government criminally responsible for the destruction of the American battleship and the death of 258 of its crew. The suspicion that the Maine was deliberately blown up grows stronger every hour. Not a single fact to the contrary has been produced.
